{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 ---\
layout: post\
title:      \'93Hypothesis Testing - Northwind Trading Co.\'94\
date:       2019-1-31 20:44:56 +0000\
permalink:  \cb2 hypothesis_testing\cb2 \
---\
\
\'93There are two possible outcomes: if the result confirms the hypotheses, then you\'92ve made a measurement. If the result is contrary to the hypothesis, then you\'92ve made a discovery\'94\
\'97 Enrico Fermi\
\
\
The scientific method is a process that involves asking questions, collecting data and testing a hypothesis. This method is the basis of the scientific world and when used correctly, can be very powerful. The method consists of the six steps below: \
\
*Steo 1: Ask a question\
*Step 2: Do background research\
*Step 3: Construct a hypothesis\
*Step 4: Test your hypothesis by doing an experiment\
*Step 5: Analyze the data and draw a conclusion\
*Step 6: Share your results and Iterate\
\
In order to become well versed with the process, I have completed an analysis of the Northwind Trading Co. database. I used sql to access the fake Microsoft database and import the data into a jupiter notebook. This database is schema of 13 tables that contain information relating to products, sales, customers, suppliers and employees for the fake company. \
\
After importing the data into a pandas dictionary for easier exploration I decided to approach this project as I would a business update. In my previous managerial work, I often focused on a few key aspects: People, Sales, Profit. I believe that focusing on these aspect, in that order will allow for a successful business. This approach led me to focus on the following questions:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 {\listtext	1.	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Looking for the top performers: Is the UK or US sales team sell more product? Are men or women more productive? Who is the top Sales Person?\cf3 \cb2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	2.	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Is there a difference in the mean number of products sold in a sales categories by region?\
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	3.	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Is there a difference in the number of imports and domestic products that customers purchase and the revenue they create?\
\ls1\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	4.	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Do discounts have a statistically significant effect on the number of products customers order? If so, at what level(s) of discount?\cf3 \cb2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
*Ask a Question\
For each of these questions, I followed the same process. I started by creating my question and null/alternative hypotheses. I then decided which tests and significance value I would use. Doing this step early in the process before any analysis has been completed is a good way to ensure that there is no experimentor bias in the process. \
\
* Do Background Research\
I then started  importing the data into a DataFrame using a sql query. I found this to be the most straight forward process because I could choose the exact columns that I wanted and use JOIN statements across the tables in a succinct manner. While these queries can look intimidating, it is a great way to ensure you get the exact information you need in order to answer your question. \
\
One extra step I performed is to create the total sales number for products. We were given the number of units purchases, price and discount offered but it was all collected on a product level. In order to find the total sales, I multiplied the number of products sold by the price including discount when appropriate. I then grouped the data by whatever columns were necessary. This gave my the information I needed to start graphing the data and running test. \
\
The first test I ran when appropriate was a levene\'92s test which tests for homogeneity of variances. In other words, this test described how likely it is that the two datasets came from the same distribution. This information aided me in determining the tests that were appropriate to run. \
\
* Test with an experiment. \
I used a variety of tests in order to analyze my data including two-tailed t-tests, welch\'92s t-test and tukey tests. For all of these tests I used a significance value of 0.05 and found an array of results. \
\
*Analyze the data and draw conclusions\
This step is where it all comes together. While it is not the final step, this is what will inform any business decisions as well as future tests. It is important during this step to be careful when making conclusions as it is easy to make false assumptions or move in a direction that is not exactly correct. There is always the possibility that there are hidden influences that are muddling your results. \
\
The findings of my analysis are summarized below, as well as my ultimate recommendations for northwind trading co. moving forward. \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Is the UK or US sales team sell more product? Are men or women more productive? Who is the top Sales Person?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb2 Both regions and all sales members performing equally well\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The t-test comparing the mean sales of the US based sales team (1520.15) vs. the UK based sales team (1538.31) was insignificant.\'a0t=0.1257,p=0.899\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The t-test comparing the mean sales of males (1566.10) vs. females (1504.48) was insignificant.\'a0t=0.453,p=0.65\uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The tukey test shows no significance in sales amongst the employees either which would indicate that they are all doing equally well.\cf3 \cb2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 Is there a difference in the mean number of products sold in a sales categories by region?\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 The Eastern Region is the strongest, followed by the Western Region in both sales and number of products sold. There is however no leading category.\
\ls4\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 The Eastern region sells more product than the other three regions. The Western region also sells more than both the Southern and Northern regions. There is no significant difference between the Southern and Northern regions.\
\ls4\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 The Eastern region has more in sales than the other three regions but there is no significant difference between the other regions.\
\ls4\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 There is no outstanding significant categories in terms of either sales or product.\uc0\u8232 \cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Is there a difference in the number of imports and domestic products that customers purchase and the revenue they create?\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Develop relationships with more domestic partners and push domestic suppliers\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 The t-test comparing the mean number of imports sold (40.32) vs. domestic products (44.33) was significant.\'a0\cf3 \cb2 \up0 \strokec3 t=\uc0\u8722 2.897,p=0.0038\cf3 \cb2 \up0 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls4\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 The t-test comparing the mean sales of imports (540.59) vs. domestic products (891.64) was significant.\'a0\cf3 \cb2 \up0 \strokec3 t=\uc0\u8722 4.101, p=5.1699e\u8722 05\u8232 \cf3 \cb2 \up0 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Do discounts have a statistically significant effect on the number of products customers order? If so, at what level(s) of discount?\
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Discounts sell more products!\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Using Welch's t-test, we can see that there is a significant difference between the mean products sold when there was no discount offered (21.7) and any amount of discount offered (27.1).\'a0\cf3 \cb2 \up0 \strokec3 t=\uc0\u8722 6.23,p=5.65641429e\u8722 10\cf3 \cb2 \up0 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Using a tukey test, we can further explore that 15% , 20%, and 25% means are significantly different from the mean products sold with no discounts.\uc0\u8232 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 5% discount is significantly different from 0 but 10% is not, while more data could clear up this difference, sticking with a discount of 15% or more will increase the number of items sold.\uc0\u8232 \
\ls5\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 There is no significant difference between the groups of discount levels.\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf3 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
}